team_name: Carnegie Mellon Delphi Group
model_name: TimeSeries
model_abbr: CMU-TimeSeries
model_contributors: Alden Green (Lead modeler - state deaths, Carnegie Mellon
  University), <ajgreen@andrew.cmu.edu>, Addison Hu (Co-lead modeler - county
  cases, Carnegie Mellon University), Dmitry Shemetov (Carnegie Mellon
  University) <dshemetov@cmu.edu>, Maria Jahja (Co-lead modeler - county cases,
  Carnegie Mellon University), Valerie Ventura (Carnegie Mellon University),
  Larry Wasserman (Carnegie Mellon University), Rob Tibshirani (Stanford
  University), Vishnu Shankar (Stanford University), Jacob Bien (University of
  Southern California), Logan Brooks (Carnegie Mellon University),
  Balasubramanian Narasimhan (Stanford University), Samyak Rajanala (Stanford
  University), Aaron Rumack (Carnegie Mellon University), Noah Simon (University
  of Washington), James Sharpnack (UC Davis), Daniel McDonald (University of
  British Columbia), Ryan Tibshirani (Senior author, Carnegie Mellon
  University), and the Delphi COVID-19 Response Team
website_url: https://delphi.cmu.edu
license: cc-by-4.0
team_model_designation: primary
ensemble_of_hub_models: false
methods: >
  (State Hosp) An ensemble of (a) 28-day-window AR + residual resampling, (b)
  direction-stratified quantile AR (QAR), and (c) windowed QARX with cases.
  (State Deaths) (County Cases) Other QARX models.
team_funding: CDC Center of Excellence, gifts from Google and Facebook
data_inputs: US Dept. of Health and Human Services (confirmed COVID-19
  hospitalization admissions), JHU-CSSE (confirmed case counts and deaths),
  Delphi COVIDcast health system partners, Delphi's US COVID-19 Trends and
  Impact Survey (CTIS), U.S. Census Bureau (state and county population data)
methods_long: >
  State hospitalization forecasts - A CDF-space-averaged ensemble
  of 3 models. The first is a simple point AR model trained on a 28-day window
  of just hospitalization data normalized by population, with distributions
  built by sampling from studentized residuals. The second is a quantile
  autoregression model with additional case covariates, fit on the count scale
  with a 28-day training window; each of the 23 quantiles is learned using a
  separate quantile regression, with nonnegativity and sorting constraints
  applied post hoc. The third is a direction-stratified forecaster, which uses a
  linear classifier to determine which of five time-series directions (up,
  steady, down, too-low-to-call, or missing data) forecasters to use, where the
  direction-conditional forecasters are quantile autoregression models trained
  on the rate scale with no training window.

  State death forecasts - A basic AR-type time series model fit using lagged
  values of case counts and deaths as features. No assumptions are made
  regarding reopening or governmental interventions. The model is jointly fit
  across all 50 US states, after some time-alignment is performed as a
  preprocessing step to facilitate comparison between states. Heavier weight is
  placed on more recent training data, to account for nonstationarity in the
  underlying process. A lasso penalty is added to induce variable selection and
  prevent overfitting. Quantiles are computed using a residual (Gaussian)
  bootstrap, separately for each location. Revised in later submissions to fit
  into a simpler framework built on quantile autoregression framework with
  additional covariates and a training window.

  County inc case forecasts - A quantile regression model fit jointly across
  selected counties using (1) case counts, (2) self-reported COVID symptom
  rates, (3) doctor's visits rates related to COVID symptoms, and (4) county
  population. Features (1-3) are taken at various lags. Furthermore, the slopes
  of features (1-3) are computed over the preceding month and included in the
  model to provide a sense of the virus's momentum. Revised in later submissions
  to fit into a simpler framework built on quantile autoregression framework
  with additional covariates and a training window.

  All data used are available in client packages for the Delphi COVIDcast
  Epidata API (http://covidcast.cmu.edu). Signal (2) is administered with the
  support of Facebook. No assumptions are made regarding reopening or
  governmental interventions.
