team_name: NotreDame-mobility
model_name: NotreDame-mobility
model_abbr: NotreDame-mobility
model_contributors: 'guido espana <guido.espana@nd.edu>,  rachel oidtman,  sean cavany,  alan
  costello,  anneliese wieler,  anita lerch,  carly barbera,  marya poterek,  quan
  tran,  sean moore,  alex perkins <taperkins@nd.edu>   '
website_url: https://github.com/TAlexPerkins/covid19_NDmobility_forecasting
license: cc-by-4.0
team_model_designation: primary
methods: This is an ensemble of nine models that are identical except that they are
  driven by different mobility indices from Apple and Google. The model underlying
  each is a deterministic, SEIR-like model.
team_funding: GE and TAP were supported by a RAPID grant from the National Science
  Foundation (DEB 2027718).
data_inputs: NYTimes daily reported deaths count and test positivity rate
methods_long: This forecast is an ensemble of nine models that are identical except
  that they are driven by different mobility indices from Apple and Google. The model
  underlying each is a deterministic, SEIR-like model. Model simulations are initiated
  by imported infections, which arrive from January 1 onward according to a scaled
  Normal probability density. Each imported and then local infection gives rise to
  an average number of secondary infections distributed forward in time according
  to a generation interval distribution. Once infected, a proportion of those infected
  die at times distributed according to a distribution between symptom onset and death.
  Testing of a subset of symptomatic infections is distributed in time in a similar
  manner, and the model is fitted to data on test positivity by accounting for those
  seeking testing and a differential probabililty of seeking testing conditional on
  one's infection status. The model is simultaneously fitted to deaths according to
  a Poisson likelihood of daily incidence of death. There are a total of twelve model
  parameters that are all estimated. First, a parameter sweep is conducted to identify
  the parameter combination from the sweep with the highest likelihood. Then, a region
  around that parameter combination is assumed to have a uniform prior, and a posterior
  set of parameters is obtained with MCMC. The model is then simulated forward under
  each sampled parameter set from the posterior distribution. This process is repeated
  for each of nine mobility metrics from Apple and Google for 50 states and some territories
  where at least one type of mobility data is available. Simulations from the posterior
  predictive distribution of each model are pooled evenly and used to generate a probabilistic
  forecast in each state and at the national level.
