team_name: Los Alamos National Lab and Northern Arizona University
model_name: Compartmental Model with Bayesian Inference
model_abbr: LosAlamos_NAU-CModel_SDVaxVar
model_contributors: Ye Chen (Northern Arizona University)<yechent@gmail.com>, Yen
  Ting Lin (Los Alamos National Laboratory), Ely F. Miller (Northern Arizona University),
  Jacob Neumann (Northern Arizona University), Abhishek Mallela (University of California,
  Davis), Richard G. Posner (Northern Arizona University), William S. Hlavacek (Los
  Alamos National Laboratory)<wish@lanl.gov>
website_url: https://github.com/lanl/COVID-19-Predictions
license: cc-by-4.0
team_model_designation: primary
ensemble_of_hub_models: false
methods: We used the compartmental model analyze case data available for each State.
  The model consists of ordinary differential equations describing the dynamics of
  40 populations (state variables).
team_funding: Y.T.L. was supported by the LDRD program at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
  Y.C., W.S.H., E.F.M., J.N. and R.G.P. were supported by a grant from the National
  Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health (R01GM111510).
  A.M. was supported by the 2020 Mathematical Sciences Graduate Internship program,
  which is sponsored by the Division of Mathematical Sciences of the National Science
  Foundation. Computational resources used in this study included Northern Arizona
  University's Monsoon computer cluster, which is funded by Arizona's Technology and
  Research Initiative Fund.
data_inputs: JHU CSSE (confirmed cases), COVID Act Now (vaccination data)
citation: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.10.19.21265223v1
methods_long: We used a compartmental model consists of ordinary differential equations
  (ODEs) describing the dynamics of 40 populations (state variables). The model quantified
  the impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions (social distancing for example) on
  COVID-19 transmission dynamics, and captures vaccination of susceptible and recovered
  persons and infected non-quarantined persons without symptoms at a time-varying
  per capita rate. This vaccination rate is updated daily for consistency with MSA-specific
  daily reports of completed vaccinations. The model also captures immune responses
  to vaccination yielding varying degrees of protection and the consequences of breakthrough
  infection of vaccinated persons. Vaccine protection against transmissible infection
  was taken to be variant-dependent. The parameterized models provide estimates of
  the relative transmissibility of Alpha and Delta, as well as their takeover times
  in each State (i.e., the times at which the variants became dominant). Using Bayesian
  inference, we calibrate region-specific models daily for consistency with new reports
  of confirmed cases from the 50 States in US and quantify uncertainty in parameter
  estimates and predictions of future case reports. This online learning approach
  allows for early identification of new trends despite considerable variability in
  case reporting. Details of the model can be found in 'citation'.
